The tenth issue of Nervous Horse, a literary magazine I've been editing and publishing for four years now, came out some days ago, and the selection of pieces feels like the most avant-garde and least reader-friendly so far. To me this is an unequivocally good thing. I would even go as far as to say that this new issue is very close to how I initially envisoned the journal to be and how it probably would be if I wrote everything in it myself. But as each issue is made up of pieces by several authors and I have adopted the principle of publishing anything submitted, the result is always a surprise. And as pleasant a surprise as it was for me this time, I somehow got the impression that not all of the readers or contributors shared my excitement. The overall response to the publication of this long-awaited and long-delayed issue, save for a few moderately enthusiastic ejaculations, was that of indecipherable silence.

So have I permanently alienated a fair portion of the journal's already marginal audience? Perhaps. Do I take it as a setback? Quite the opposite, actually. As a matter of fact I feel more or less the same way about this issue as I've felt at every harsh noise concert I've been to, watching the cute hipster girls taken aback by the volume and the crudity of the sound hold their pretty little fingers to their delicate ears, their immaculate faces wrought with mild agony, and finally, one by one, hesitatingly get their coats and leave, so that by the end of the show only the truly initiated are left to reward the artist with temperate applause. There is a certain sense of comfort and unity in knowing that no matter how far beyond the limits you take your art, it will always resonate with the select few.

This reflection, of course, is nothing but an excuse to refer to Nervous Horse on my gopherspace while I'm still stuck at trying to figure out how to properly transport actual links to the html version of the site. (The details of this project are vaguely explained in the previous post.) This phlog, I assume, is read by even fewer people than the journal, but if you are one of them and would like to message me with your comments or questions concerning the scripts I use on this site, or any other matter, feel free to do so through the Nervous Horse email. The scripts, along with backups of these texts, are currently stored at GitHub. Search for the repository jkgiih-at-sdf-eu and you shall find them.
